.github/ISSUES/README.md, before:

# Cross-Team Issue Tracking

This directory tracks issues filed with other teams that affect this project.

## Current Blockers

| Issue | Team | Status | Impact |
|-------|------|--------|--------|
| [#98](https://github.com/com-oneredboot/orb-schema-generator/issues/98) | orb-schema-generator | Open | v2.0.2 requires all targets in all generators, blocks language-specific targets (bug) |

## Resolved Issues

| Issue | Team | Resolution |
|-------|------|------------|
| [#92](https://github.com/com-oneredboot/orb-schema-generator/issues/92) | orb-schema-generator | Fixed in v1.3.1 - GDScript validator warning resolved |
| [#93](https://github.com/com-oneredboot/orb-schema-generator/issues/93) | orb-schema-generator | Fixed in v1.3.2 - GDScript target resolution fixed |
| [#94](https://github.com/com-oneredboot/orb-schema-generator/issues/94) | orb-schema-generator | Closed as won't implement - Current target naming system deemed sufficient |

## Usage

### Filing a New Issue

1. Create body file using the template:
   ```bash
   cp .github/ISSUES/issue-body-template.md .github/ISSUES/{team}-{number}.md
   ```

2. Fill in the template with issue details

3. File the issue:
   ```bash
   gh issue create --repo com-oneredboot/{team} \
     --title "[Title]" \
     --body-file .github/ISSUES/{team}-{number}.md
   ```

4. Add entry to Current Blockers table above

### When an Issue is Resolved

1. Verify the fix works in your project
2. Move entry from Current Blockers to Resolved Issues
3. Close the GitHub issue (you own it as the creator)
4. Optionally delete the body file or keep for reference

## File Naming Convention

- `{team}-{number}.md` - Body file for issue #{number} in {team}'s repository
- Example: `orb-schema-generator-28.md`

## Benefits

- **Visibility**: Team knows what's blocked and why
- **Traceability**: Links between local tracking and GitHub issues
- **Shell-safe**: Using `--body-file` avoids escaping issues with complex content
- **History**: Resolved issues stay documented for reference

Commit message:

Configure pre-commit hooks and upgrade orb-schema-generator to v2.0.4
- Add Black formatter for all Python files
- Add Ruff linter with auto-fix (excluding generated/addons)
- Add mypy type checking for infrastructure, api, and generated code
- Add pytest for CDK unit tests (37 tests passing)
- Add Godot unit tests (109 tests passing)
- Upgrade orb-schema-generator from v2.0.2 to v2.0.4
- Fix issue #100: datetime import now included in generated models
- Update schema targets to avoid duplicate names (api/backend/client)
- Fix all test failures and linting errors
- Rename ConnectionPoint to DoorConnectionPoint
- Fix door_manager infinite loop with is_instance_valid checks
- Fix AssetMapper to use local transforms
- Convert door state property tests to async tests
- Add ruff.toml config to suppress errors for generated/addon files
- Track issue #100 as resolved in v2.0.4

.github/ISSUES/README.md, after:

# Cross-Team Issue Tracking

This directory tracks issues filed with other teams that affect this project.

## Current Blockers

| Issue | Team | Status | Impact |
|-------|------|--------|--------|
| [#98](https://github.com/com-oneredboot/orb-schema-generator/issues/98) | orb-schema-generator | Open | v2.0.2 requires all targets in all generators, blocks language-specific targets (bug) |

## Resolved Issues

| Issue | Team | Resolution |
|-------|------|------------|
| [#100](https://github.com/com-oneredboot/orb-schema-generator/issues/100) | orb-schema-generator | Fixed in v2.0.4 - datetime import now included in generated Python models |
| [#92](https://github.com/com-oneredboot/orb-schema-generator/issues/92) | orb-schema-generator | Fixed in v1.3.1 - GDScript validator warning resolved |
| [#93](https://github.com/com-oneredboot/orb-schema-generator/issues/93) | orb-schema-generator | Fixed in v1.3.2 - GDScript target resolution fixed |
| [#94](https://github.com/com-oneredboot/orb-schema-generator/issues/94) | orb-schema-generator | Closed as won't implement - Current target naming system deemed sufficient |

## Usage

### Filing a New Issue

1. Create body file using the template:
   ```bash
   cp .github/ISSUES/issue-body-template.md .github/ISSUES/{team}-{number}.md
   ```

2. Fill in the template with issue details

3. File the issue:
   ```bash
   gh issue create --repo com-oneredboot/{team} \
     --title "[Title]" \
     --body-file .github/ISSUES/{team}-{number}.md
   ```

4. Add entry to Current Blockers table above

### When an Issue is Resolved

1. Verify the fix works in your project
2. Move entry from Current Blockers to Resolved Issues
3. Close the GitHub issue (you own it as the creator)
4. Optionally delete the body file or keep for reference

## File Naming Convention

- `{team}-{number}.md` - Body file for issue #{number} in {team}'s repository
- Example: `orb-schema-generator-28.md`

## Benefits

- **Visibility**: Team knows what's blocked and why
- **Traceability**: Links between local tracking and GitHub issues
- **Shell-safe**: Using `--body-file` avoids escaping issues with complex content
- **History**: Resolved issues stay documented for reference
